How they work it out.
This is the reason why when
Mohammad Sahib came in,
he preached that you should
not bow to anyone, whatsoever.
Because bowing he knew that when the real person
will come, you will recognize him in any case.
But there was a general view,
even Nanak Sahib could not change.
And Nanak Sahib organized [UNCLEAR
a book] just a symbol of wisdom of
many great souls that you can only go
and bow to that and not to anybody else.
Preaching of Mohammad Sahib was just the same,
but the followers as usual
have committed such blunders
that it appears that they are not the followers,
but they are the enemies of
these great incarnations.
It is nice that in Sahaja Yoga
when you get self-realization,
in the beginning, may not be but little later,
you start yourself feeling the pangs of sin,
and also of the sinful people.
So you avoid the company of sinful people.
You have to.
If you remain in the company of sinful people
then you know you get headaches,
you get agnya catching,
you get all kinds of complications and
you want to run away from such a place.
And nobody tells you that you run away
but you just run away you can’t bear it,
your body has become different.
But the best way to strengthen yourself
is to be together as Sahaja Yogis.
You must attend the programs when
there is a collective, aarti or puja
or meditation.
You are seeing that when you collect
together something happens to you.
If you sit at home and do
something, nothing works out much.
Anywhere, when there are people sitting together
in meditation, Sahaja Yoga itself manifests,
because it is a collective phenomenon.
It is such a collective phenomenon.
I will give an example of Gregoire, one day
he was sitting with me and he was not feeling any
vibrations and he was very much worried about it.
I was looking out from the
window and he was just facing me,
and another Sahaja Yogi was
coming up the hill to my house.
Immediately he said I am getting the vibrations.
He said how is it suddenly
the vibrations have started?
I said look back and see who is coming.
And he saw another Sahaja
Yogi plodding up the hill.
His presence there, his coming
only, added to his vibrations.
It is a collective phenomenon.
How it works out collectively,
why it works out collectively, is again a
question which is my job, it’s not yours.
But I can say there’s a mathematics about it.
There is a mathematics about it! You must know
that for everything there is a Mathematics.
Everything works out in a mathematics.
Why it is so?
It is being made like that.
And Sahaja Yoga works out after, actually,
there are more than seven people.
[Talks in Marathi].
You have to understand that how a
collective phenomenon works out.
If there is a realized soul,
then he is surrounded by at least [UNCLEAR
2 or 3] divine [UNCLEAR beings], at least.
But in certain cases when
there is a realized soul and
he is not yet, say that good, say for
example if he smokes, take an example.
And let’s say there is only
one following such a man.
If all his chakras are bad and despite he smokes
also and he also drinks and things like that.
Then maybe there is only one, maybe with
him or may not be even one sometimes.
But mostly there’s at least
one, minimum one you can put it.
So every realized soul has
got some people with them.
And if somebody does some sinful act for a
short time say for example, he does
something bad, actually very bad.
Then all of them might depart for the time
being but they again come back to him.
Now when such a man is struggling to have
a, an experience, if there is another
positive person, a very positive person comes
in, he may be having more people with him,
so he may be able to spare some
of his people to prop up this man.
So it acts like a, just like
the valencies of the atoms.
But the only difference is between the
two is that human beings can accumulate
as much as they want, they can change,
but the atoms cannot change.
Those people who just innocently commit some
mistakes and something like that and they are
very active in Sahaja Yoga and good people,
they also find it difficult, hard, sometimes
to overcome their habits, it is so.
So they must know if at that time
if they go to another Sahaja Yogi
who does not have this habit, a particular
habit, say of eating the snuff, snuff taking.
Another person does not have
this habit of snuff taking.
Then the other person’s guides who are
hovering on him can help this man much more
than the another person who is about to
take a snuff and if you go next to him,
then he’s already occupied and he’ll
take away all the three that you had.
So you both will have a nice snuff taking.
See.
But they do not enter into your
psyche, the difference is this.
They do not enter into your psyche, but
they bring about a cosmic change around.
But supposing a person is suffering from bhoot
badha (negativity), or he has been to some gurus,
so the guru will also fix certain
entities with that fellow.
They tell us like that.
Now, when this one is trying to do something bad
then he will be supported by another
bhoot badha wala (a negative person).
The fraternity works very hard.
You have seen the example of that in our groups.
You see, if there is one
person who has a bhoot badha,
you must ask Pradhan because
his son is suffering from that.
He is so much interested in
people who have got bhoot badha.
So, what happens such a
person when he goes and talks
about his bhoot badha, the another one
will come immediately to support him.
He will be forced up.
There will be no freedom in it.
He will just go, just like a
magnet he will be attracted towards that
person who has a bhoot badha, immediately.
And he becomes weak.
Not only that, it can be that a
person who has a stronger bhoot badha
will attract a person of a smaller bhoot badha
and will influence and spoil that person.
Now what is the difference?
In first case you have to choose
to be in the company of a Sahaja
Yogi who does not have these habits.
Say for example somebody
is a hot- tempered fellow.
Such a man when he gets into hot-temper, if
he can think of somebody who is a very silent
by temperament, immediately he will
be surprised, his temper will go away.
If a man who is so silent that he does
not even mind his Mother being insulted
and he feels bad about it that I can’t say
anything about it then such a man, if he
thinks of someone who would not tolerate stuff
like this then immediately he gets the power.
But the difference is very big.
There is tremendous difference between the two.
One you have to choose with
freedom, another you have forced it.
But you’ll find so many Sahaja Yogis also, they
get attracted to negativity just like this.
They don’t know how they get interested into that,
but to positivity they have to exert themselves.
This is a thing and it is a
system which works out sometimes.
That’s why I tell people
that do not keep combinations
of the people who have the same weakness.
When I say that people feel hurt sometimes.
But you’ll find always, friendship is there.
Say there are two Sahaja Yogis
who talk ill of Sahaja Yoga,
morning till evening finding
faults with Sahaja Yoga.
They will combine together because
they keep a good company, you see.
It is better to have diverse company so
that you supplement each other better
than to be attracted towards people who are
of the same nature especially from one family.
Supposing they are people of one family, so
you don’t discuss Sahaja Yoga among them.
Either they will fight or they will
combine together in Sahaja Yoga.
So best thing to do in Sahaja Yoga is to
first find out your faults, sitting down.
Write it down what are my faults?
These are my defects.
Somebody is a show off, he shows off all the time.
You see he must say something to show off,
now another show off should run away from him.
He should sit with a person who is a shy person.
And this is another style which is very
different from that of the negative people,
because in negativity, two negatives must
join together nicely to become real negative.
But in Sahaja Yoga two opposites
must meet to be good Sahaja Yogis.
But this must be done
in complete freedom, in complete understanding.
[He must do it in freedomtalks in Marathi].
What is the realm of being good Sahaja Yogis?
In one word you can understand.
Only one small thing
is to be responsible.
If you are a responsible Sahaja
Yogi, you will find your own way.
If you are not, you will go to doom.
Because if you are responsible then
only God is going to give you more.
If you behave irresponsibly,
you talk irresponsibly,
if you do not think what
you can do for Sahaja Yoga,
you just come to Sahaja Yoga as a sort of a
liability on Sahaja Yoga, and you always go
like those are responsible… [ They have not
done it so how can I do-talks in Marathi].
She should have done it, why should I?
What can I do?
I mean who is he, who are you?
He is a Sahaja Yogi, you are also a Sahaja Yogi.
The people who are responsible
in every way, in their behaviour.
Mohammad Sahib has been
very very particular on this and he did say very
clearly that while doing Namaz in the presence of
the divine you should not budge
even from where you are sitting,
you should not move, your
eyes should not rove about,
you should not yawn.
There are so many things if you ask me I can’t
even tell you how many things he has said it.
To all the details in behaviour
he has said great things.
Once you start feeling responsible you
yourself will know how to behave, what to do,
what not to do.
Then, when you are responsible you will be
amazed you will drop out most of your habits,
automatically, any habit.
Supposing somebody is a very talkative person.
That habit will drop out because
you will find out that by talking
too much sometimes you are committing mistakes.
So it comes to a balance.
If somebody doesn’t talk at all,
he will find being responsible that
it doesn’t help, you have to talk.
He starts talking.
Only one word is to be responsible.
Once you take the responsibility
of Sahaja yoga on your shoulders,
immediately all the dimensions
of your new life will open out.
Knowledge will pour into you.
You will get related to life in a new way.
And a new style of understanding will develop.
The subtleties of life will open out before you.
The joy will pour onto you, when you will sleep,
you feel as if the Ganges (a holy river) is
flowing over your Sahasrara, the Jamuna
(a holy river) is washing your feet.
You really feel that.
But you have to be responsible.
I see very young people also being very… our
Moresco is a very responsible boy, he is so young.
Whatever is possible he would
like to do for Sahaja Yogis,
he is so very young, he is so responsible.
For that you don’t have to have money, don’t
have to have anything but to be responsible.
That doesn’t mean that if you come to my house
ten times and if you are with me, next to my
room, then you are responsible.
This is a wrong idea.
Responsible also means that others should be given
chance, others should be there, why should I?
And when you start leading a
responsible Sahaja Yogi life,
thousands of evolved souls will hover around you.
You will have a different light on your face.
You will be amazed when you speak you
will be amazed that how you are speaking.
How things are happening, how at every
moment how things are working out.
As it is you know how things
are Sahaja, how it works out,
you know that every moment it is working.
Only you are for a simple to
be responsible on the stage,
otherwise there will be thousands
of them working for you.
There are very few people on the stage.
Behind the stage, there are thousands.
The example is of these three
people in Rahuri (India).
How responsible they are and how
responsibly they have behaved.
And when you start
thinking on those lines that I am responsible
for this, just find out ways and methods.
If you think you are responsible for your family,
you will find out all the ways and
methods for running your family.
But now you are responsible for Sahaja Yoga.
The sense of responsibility can only come through
your freedom, this is the problem of Sahaja Yoga.
But for a negative person it comes
to him automatically jolly well.
Everyone I have seen these guru is negatively
charged, he just starts talking about it.
He may not have seen his guru
at all, he may not have got
one pie worth of things of, but
he will be talking about it.
You ask him what has happened,
what is he good at and nothing.
Because he is negatively
charged, there is no freedom.
Does that mean that in freedom
human beings cannot be responsible?
Is it that human beings are not
yet evolved to be responsible?
They must be dominated by somebody or
driven by somebody otherwise they
cannot do something responsibly.
So in Sahaja Yoga when we think of our
own development and our own emancipation.
We have to be responsible.
I did not say anything to you at all.
I even feel very hurt while
saying anything to you.
I don’t like it.
Because it is not a good taste
for me to say anything to anyone.
I know many a times, many things I know about
because it is not good for me to talk like that.
After all it is very hard to
be a mother and a teacher.
It is a very very difficult task.
You have no idea.
Because I love you so much I can’t
bear to say something harsh to you.
If I say anything I feel very hurt
and I weep sometimes I have to say.
If you could be little responsible more every day.
Every person must think that at least
10 persons I must bring to Sahaja yoga.
It is our responsibility.
Ten persons I must bring to Sahaja yoga and
in such a manner that they are done up well.
They are prepared well.
They are ready.
Find out the ways and methods..
Nobody has given me any schemes as to how
to increase the activities of Sahaja Yoga.
Sit down, think about it.
I have already told that one method
would be to have a program in a house
of a Sahaja Yogi and all of you
should go there and invite the
neighbors saying that in our house
we are going to have a program.
Even for a small haldi-kumkumyou
can get at least 500 women easily.
So for Sahaja
you can.
Find out ways and methods.
How you can bring more people to Sahaja Yoga?
One person is more responsible than another.
It should not be so.
And there are so many other things
which you should also understand.
For example,
people write letters to me about
lots of things I have to meditate,
I have to do some penances so I have
to write book, like that, I am busy.
You know I do not spare myself much.
I do not write letters back.
Sometimes I cannot.
Even if you do not receive a
letter you will be looked after.
Remember that.
But you must write letters.
There are people who just do not write letters.
I have seen it.
Just do not write.
You must learn to write letters.
Today I received a very sweet letter
from Mrs Knight and her husband.
It is like a puja.
So beautiful it was.
You must write beautiful letters This
is not the way to be responsible.
Just you do not write.
At least minimum you should write letters to me
and to other Sahaja Yogis thatI would say Shirayu
she is very responsible.
I never write to her, seldom I have time.
She writes to me.
She has so many problems.
She has her children, she has her husband.
But she writes to me beautiful letters.
And even if I do not write
to her she never minds me.
[UNCLEAR] If she was not
have written letters to me
she would not have composed such beautiful poems.
Another is Raul Bai.
I seldom have time to write to her.
But she writes to me.
If I cannot answer you, you
should not feel bad about it.
This is one thing you must decide.
That your Mother is very
pre-occupied, and She is very busy.
Your letters of course give me great
happiness and you must write to me.
But people seldom write.
Seldom.
Very few people really write to me.
And they have no time for writing letters you see.
This is not the way.
Now I will tell you the secret.
It is very very simple.
You have read so many scriptures and you
have read Ishwar Stuti or Devi Stuti
all these things you have read.
What do we write on our invitation cards?
Come [UNCLEAR].
Jagadamba Prasanna (pleased).
That is the Mother is in
such pleasures you can say.
She has been so happy.
Or She is very happy about it.
So you must just find out
what will make Mother happy.
What makes me happy.
When you do something just weigh it out,
will She be happy if we do like this.
If we talk like this and say like these things.
Will She be happy?
It is very simple.
You know me too well that
I am not going to like it.
I may not say about it, I may keep quiet.
But I am not going to like it.
That is a very good judging point.
Do not do what you want to do and you like it.
That is a wrong style.
Absolutely wrong.
But you must do what I would like you to do.
And you know Me very well.
And that is what it should be
that Mataji Prasanna(pleased).
This is a sort of a certificate as
we take as we write Mataji Prasanna.
In our house such and such
wedding is going to take place.
That She is happy.
So do everything with that permission.
As it is I am very happy I must say this time
because you have opened out very much this
time and there has been a big progress.
There is a big rise.
But it should be done regularly,
and it must be kept up.
I do not know how to tell you
what has happened to you actually
because it is a very big
process which came into play.
And it has worked out very well.
And now you will be seeing your
small small faults of your chakras
which you are separated from and
you are not bothered about it.
So, when you have a problem on your chakras
try to clear them and keep them clean.
And respect yourself and your
responsibilities as Sahaja yogis.
This is a very historical
meeting of very very few people.
And everything that we have done
here has been of great help.
Carry no malice in your heart but joy
that you found a place where there is
a goodwill of so many Sahaja
yogis who are realized souls.
And when they increase in number the ratio
increases of the evolved souls who surround them
in multiple proportions.
Or you can say geometrical proportions, that
is the correct way, that is mathematics.
So, the more you are the better it
is and it is now your responsibility
to be wise and to show some results
till I am in Bombay and also in India.
Let us see now everybody, how he goes about.
And the programs are going to
be in Bharatiya Vidhya Bhawan.
Sometimes it shocks Me when I see that in big
programs Sahaja yogis are the last to come.
All the rest of the people are
there and Sahaja yogis are missing.
So first of all find out ten people
who will come for Sahaja yoga.
Next program I do not know he will announce it
where it is I do not know we have not yet decided.
[3 & 4 in Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan & 2 – 4 in
Ghatkopar- talks in MarathiConversation with
another yogi in Marathi].
In Bharatiya Vidhya Bhawan three and four.
So you should find out people
why they are doing like this.
Why should not they come
into it and go ahead with it.
I even know Sahaja yogis which are lost you can
go and talk to them and work it out if possible.
If not, forget them.
Let new people talk to them and
tell them about Sahaja yoga.
And I hope this three and four
will be a very good program.
Now everybody should be responsible.
Should find out if somebody needs
flowers somebody can bring flowers.
Somebody can bring UdBatti (lncense sticks),
somebody can bring something for the program.
And somebody can bring… You see even when I go
there then the adjustment starts of the radio
and there this thing and that thing and
such a waste of time and that is not good.
But it is you see we find faults with others.
We never find out ourselves
what we have done about it.
You see supposing somebody has
not brought say the loudspeaker.
So that fellow has not brought the
loudspeaker so it is very wrong you see.
But what have you done about it?
Have you done something about it,
have you found out something about it?
And if everybody works it out,
how to decorate, how to put
it right and everything,
how we are going to expand it,
then the things will be alright.
Another program which all of you should know
is on the 21st of March and I would like
all the other people to also come.
You can bring some people from
Rahuri, those people who want to come.
21st of March.
19, 20 and 21.
At least if you can come
for one day it is alright [if you come in
2-3 days then also fine upto that we will
find place to live so problem of living will get
solve-conversation with another yogi in Marathi].
19, 20, 21 we can have regular
three-day program in that place.
But in any case we organize something
better this time 19, 20, 21.
[Now we have program in Delhi, ask those people
– conversation with another yogi in Hindi].